===== PAGE 1 =====
Outdoor cat owners are increasingly getting worried when their cat wander too far from home. Outdoor cat owners may have trouble finding their cat to be brought inside at night or before leaving the house. Making this process easier can save cat owners this critical time. Outdoor cats may get trapped or stuck outside without the owner knowing about it. Cat Owners may be reluctant to let their cats out because of the fear of losing track of them Successfully implemented an end-to-end IoT tracking system with real-time data acquisition, backend integration, and mobile-based visualization. Future work will incorporate battery-level monitoring and extend the system to support indoor localization and tracking capabilities. LoRa GPS Tracker Transmits periodic location data Firebase (Auth + Firestore) User management and real- time storage React Native (Expo) Live tracking, geofence visualization Outdoor CatTracker Dr. Meranda Salem Minh Tran, Muhammad-Hussain Al-lami, Nicholas Muttoo, Louis Chevalier The cat tracker system was set up with the as two separate components: a cat tracker tag attached to a cat, and a home base (Ti Ar C’hazh) relays the GPS data from the tag to the server. This configuration took advantage of the LoRa protocol’s low-power functionalities while also allowing the location information to be easily and reliably sent to the owner via the web. The tracker tag was designed with a RAK3172 LoRa Transceiver connected to Quetel L80-R GPS. The tag polls the GPS for coordinates every 10 seconds and then broadcasts to the home base via the LoRaP2P network. The Ti Ar C’hazh (Cat’s Home) was made up of a Raspberry Pi 2 W that polls another RAK3172. Whenever the RAK3172 module received data from the tag, the pico 2 W preformatted the data as JSON and sent it to an external server. The external server then serves the information to the mobile application, which the user can then view. Figure 1: High-Level System Architecture App UI A speci al thank s t o Dr . Mer anda S alem f or her aid and guidance during thepr oject. W e als o e xpr e s s o ur gr a ti tude t o al l contrib u t or s in and o u t of TMU . A speci al thank s t o T om Cr o ux f or helping wi th P CB s oldering and pr o viding equipment. Acknowledgements Figure 5: Live Tracking Screen, Dashboard Screen and Alerts Screen (from left to right). Firebase Authentication Manages secure user login, account handling, and user-specific data isolation. Figure 2: Ti ar C'hazh (cat's home) (top- left)PCBKiCAD design (top-right) Soldered board (bottom)KiCAD Circuit schematic Figure 3: Cat Tracker (top-left)PCB KiCADdesign (top-right) Soldered board (bottom)KiCAD Circuit schematic Testing was done in Pickering to simulate tracking both in a suburban environment as well as in a forest. In a suburban space, along a straight road, a maximum distance of 1km was achieved. Meanwile, in the nearby forest, a range of 200m was achieved. This result was deemed to be more than enough to cover the distance that a cat would realistically travel from its home. Testing The tracker was also tested against an Apple AirTag. This was done in the forest in order to compare it against the true range of the AirTag. The AirTag did not stand a chance and could not track the test cat more than 30m. Thus, it was proven that this implementation of the Cat Tracker was vastly superior to the Apple Airtag Figure 4: Cat Tracker testing results (a) Cat Tracker in forest setting (b) airtag in forest setting getting beat by the Cat Tracker (c) Cat Tracker Max Range result in suburban setting (a) (b) (c) Dédié à Éclipse Approach To track the outdoor cat's position, a GPS module is used on a tracker that it wears. This GPS module will be able to find its location when it is outdoors. To be able to read the GPS position from the user's device, that data will have to get to the application server. The cat may not always be wandering somewhere with cellular data connection, so LoRa radio transmission is used to send the data to a receiver home base inside the user's house. This receiver's home base will use the local internet connection to send the position to the backend server. Now the user's application can read the backend server to see the cat's position live. Hardware Motivation React Native Builds the mobile app with real-time UI updates, interactive maps, and cross- platform support. Flask API Processes GPS data and enables real-time communication between hardware and the mobile app. Expo Streamlines React Native development with rapid prototyping and simplified cross- platform builds. Conclusions LoRa Receiver (Homebase) SX1262-based receiver module. Forwards data to the backend Flask REST API Processes GPS data and client requests
